Protocols are system of rules.
What is network? At the most basic level, it is two devices connected in such a way that they can communicate and exchange data. A primitive way to do this would be to connect two devices using a LAN cable. LAN stands for local area network (Multiple devices are connected using a hub or in mordern times a switch). Routers basically add as gateway into or out of networks, they enable routing of network traffic to other networks.

Protocols are the set of rules that govern the exchange or transmission of data.

PDU - Protocol data unit

Latency is the measure of time it takes for some data to get from one point in a network to another point in a network (Could be thought of as the measure of delay). Bandwidth is the amount of data that can be sent in a particular unit of time, mostly a second.

TCP - Transmission control protocol

Application layer protocols rely on the protocols at the layers below them to ensure that a message gets to where it is supposed to, and focus instead on the structure of that message and the data it should contain (Can be thought of as rules for how applications talk to each other at a synctatical level).

Uniform resource locator (URL)
Uniform resource identifier (URI)
A URL is a part of an URI?

Hyper text transfer protocol (HTTP, stateless protocol)
Hypre text markup language (HTML)
Secure HTTP (HTTPS)

Files from a server to my browser (the client) are sent using the HTTP application protocol. It is also a stateless protocol.

Status codes - A 3 digits number sent back by the server after receving a request, it signifies the status of the request. Some of the common status codes are:
200 > Ok
301 > Permanently moved
302 > Found but changed temporarily
404 > Not found
500 > Internal server error

AJAX - Asynchronus Javascript and XML, plays a role in displaying dynamic content in web applications.

Developers mimic statefulness, despite having to work with HTTP, which is a stateless protocol.

TLS - Transport Layer Security
SSL - Secure Sockets Layer

Session ID is a random string that comes in a form of a cookie stored on the computer.

Developing and securing a web application is a fragile process. When you are coding or debugging a web application, it's important to eshtablish a mental model of where you are when analyzing a piece of code.
